README.md, before:

# simple-mermaid

Simple Mermaid diagrams RustDoc integration

This crate provides a simple declarative macro to include [mermaid] diagrams in your rustdoc documentation.
Lookup the great [mermaid documentation] for details on the diagram syntax.

## Usage
1. Create your [mermaid] diagrams in their own files (usually with `.mmd` or `.mermaid` extension).
2. Call the [mermaid!] macro in a `#[doc]` attribute. Specify the route to the diagram file as a
   string literal. Note that the path is interpreted relative to the file where the macro is called,
   as it happens with the underlying [include_str].
3. Done!

# Alternatives
## aquamarine
The [aquamarine] introduces a procedural macro that converts regular code blocks marked with the
[mermaid] language tag. It also allows including the diagram from external files, but that comes with some limitations:
* Only one external diagram can be added to a single doc block.
* The external diagram will always appear at the end of the doc block.

Those limitations made [aquamarine] a non-option for me, since I strongly prefer leaving the diagrams in external files for several reasons:
clutter, maintainability, IDE support, and, re-usability of the diagrams.

Besides, the declarative macro used in this crate should be easier on compile times. And it comes with no dependencies at all!

## rsdoc
The [rsdoc] crate provides procedural macros to embed [PlantUML] and images in doc coments.
It can be used with code-blocks (similar to aquamarine) or with external files (similar to this crate).
So, in this case, for me it was just a matter of personal taste, both [PlantUML] and [mermaid] are fantastic
opensource projects. But PlantUML is Java... and my plants always die (_even a cactus I once had! How can a cactus die? The thing should not need water!_).

# Disclaimer
Neither this crate nor it's autor have any relation or affiliation with the [mermaid] project, other that being an user of this magnific library.

All the examples in this documentation have been extracted, verbatim or with minor updates, from the [mermaid documentation].

[mermaid]: https://mermaid.js.org/
[include_str]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/macro.include_str.html
[mermaid documentation]: https://mermaid.js.org/intro/n00b-gettingStarted.html
[aquamarine]: https://crates.io/crates/aquamarine
[rsdoc]: https://crates.io/crates/rsdoc
[PlantUML]: https://plantuml.com/

License: MIT

Commit message:

Add mermaid compatibility details to README
Include information on the versioning strategy for mermaid updates used in this crate. Clarify that major version updates of mermaid will result in corresponding updates to the crate's versioning to reflect possible breaking changes.

README.md, after:

# simple-mermaid

Simple Mermaid diagrams RustDoc integration

This crate provides a simple declarative macro to include [mermaid] diagrams in your rustdoc documentation.
Lookup the great [mermaid documentation] for details on the diagram syntax.

## Usage
1. Create your [mermaid] diagrams in their own files (usually with `.mmd` or `.mermaid` extension).
2. Call the [mermaid!] macro in a `#[doc]` attribute. Specify the route to the diagram file as a
   string literal. Note that the path is interpreted relative to the file where the macro is called,
   as it happens with the underlying [include_str].
3. Done!

# Alternatives
## aquamarine
The [aquamarine] introduces a procedural macro that converts regular code blocks marked with the
[mermaid] language tag. It also allows including the diagram from external files, but that comes with some limitations:
* Only one external diagram can be added to a single doc block.
* The external diagram will always appear at the end of the doc block.

Those limitations made [aquamarine] a non-option for me, since I strongly prefer leaving the diagrams in external files for several reasons:
clutter, maintainability, IDE support, and, re-usability of the diagrams.

Besides, the declarative macro used in this crate should be easier on compile times. And it comes with no dependencies at all!

## rsdoc
The [rsdoc] crate provides procedural macros to embed [PlantUML] and images in doc coments.
It can be used with code-blocks (similar to aquamarine) or with external files (similar to this crate).
So, in this case, for me it was just a matter of personal taste, both [PlantUML] and [mermaid] are fantastic
opensource projects. But PlantUML is Java... and my plants always die (_even a cactus I once had! How can a cactus die? The thing should not need water!_).

# Mermaid compatibility

The 0.1.x versions of this crate use mermaid v10.

The 0.2.x versions use mermaid v11.

Since updating mermaid might be a breaking change,
any updates in the major version of mermaid
used in this crate will always result in a bump in the first non-zero version digit. 

# Disclaimer
Neither this crate nor it's autor have any relation or affiliation with the [mermaid] project, other that being an user of this magnific library.

All the examples in this documentation have been extracted, verbatim or with minor updates, from the [mermaid documentation].

[mermaid]: https://mermaid.js.org/
[include_str]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/macro.include_str.html
[mermaid documentation]: https://mermaid.js.org/intro/n00b-gettingStarted.html
[aquamarine]: https://crates.io/crates/aquamarine
[rsdoc]: https://crates.io/crates/rsdoc
[PlantUML]: https://plantuml.com/

License: MIT
